all right over the past year we've seen
a pretty big spike in creator laptop so
devices that are geared towards creative
work and we've seen stuff from like
Intel Nvidia and a whole bunch of laptop
manufacturers that's pushing that market
to just you know selling products to
people that are interested in devices
for creative work so if you're like an
artist or a video editor or just
anything that works with stuff making
stuff this videos for you so I've made
this kind of buyer's guide for people
that are interested in one of those
devices and it's kind of a guide to
figure out what you should look for what
you should avoid just so you don't get
bamboozled into the whole marketing
thing because there is a lot of
marketing fluff in this space right now
so I'm just gonna address the the first
point of this is an age-old debate of
MacBooks versus Windows laptops and over
the past couple of years there's been a
very clear and obvious winner when it
came to performance with Adobe products
particularly Adobe Premiere Windows
laptops were just 2 or 3 times better
than Mac books like forget about price
and value and all that stuff like just
performance wise these things just
crushed Apple's Mac books but recently
like the spring of 2019 Adobe updated
the software to the point where Apple's
top-of-the-line Mac books are on par or
just very equivalent in performance to
the top-of-the-line Windows laptops
forget about like the potential of
keyboard errors and stuff like that I'm
just talking about performance this is
like the Apple platform is a very viable
platform for people that are interested
in performance with Adobe's products as
of right now it wasn't the case last
year but 2019 summer you're good ok well
get it to performance and stuff later I
like to start with screens because this
is something that I think is often
overlooked with kind of the generic
laptop review when you talk about
content creation a lot of people are
interested in a screen that can display
colors accurately to an industry
standard and the truth is every single
laptop here every single laptop that
have ever had with has an imperfect
color profile they're never gonna be as
good as like a professional calibrated
screen now I want to talk about these
new OLED panels that are coming into the
laptop space they're all made by Samsung
and
a lot of manufacturers are marketing
these panels as like content creator
screens for these devices and I have an
issue with that
the Samsung OLED panel is an amazing
screen it's bright it's colorful it's
very vibrant but I do not consider them
to be good for content creation there's
a couple reasons why they're very
difficult to calibrate like super hard
to do it right
one company does it properly like the
arrow 15 from gigabyte their new one
they run an OLED and it's calibrated
well they lower their brightness to do
it properly but every other laptop
manufacturer that I've seen with an OLED
panel has worse color accuracy than I
thought they would considering how these
screens are marketed towards creative
workflows now another thing OLED panels
use PWM to control the brightness levels
and it's not some of that's going to
affect everyone but if you're sensitive
to flickering and stuff like if you are
bothered by fluorescent lights and how
they flicker the PWM on these OLED
panels can give you some kind of eye
strain point being I don't think OLED
panels are the optimal choice when it
comes to content creation there are some
really good IPS screens on the market
right now the 15-inch MacBook Pro great
screen bright color accurate the two
that I would recommend in terms of like
the best screens from Windows laptops
right now the Acer concept D uses the
same panel as the older gigabyte arrow
15 they both use a 4k IPS panel
excellent color accuracy and brights but
another thing to keep in mind is that a
lot of the gaming laptops right now have
these 1080p high refresh screens and
they're surprisingly good for color
accurate work like they're not great
they're good but you just want to expect
a gaming screen to be good at all
because often they haven't been in the
past the Razer Blade 15 like this is a
2018 model has a very usable screen for
a color accurate work once you calibrate
it but the takeaway here is that you
don't have to buy an OLED screen for
sure and even some of the older devices
like they're great especially some of
the 4k IPS panels they are very good for
color accurate work okay next thing
let's talk about pricing and value when
you purchase a creator laptop or a
laptop for creative work
there's kind of two main things you want
to keep in mind the CPU and the GPU you
want to pick up if you can afford it a
six core CPU that's basically the number
of cores that are in your processing
unit of your laptop you don't need the
2019 versions the 2018 versions are
already great the GPU let the graphical
chip inside your laptop is a much more
complicated decision it's really
dependent on what you do for your
creative work if you're like a Photoshop
user or an Adobe Premiere user you don't
need anything super powerful like the
difference between the ten sixty and the
top align our checks twenty eighty is
very slights when it comes to a lot of
photo and video work now MacBook users
have a GPU option at the top end of a
Vega GPU and that graphics card is quite
a bit more capable than their five 60 or
560 X if you can afford it and you're
one of the people that really want to
use Mac for your creative stuff I would
recommend if you can afford it to get
that Vega option it is a it is a
worthwhile upgrade okay I think that
wraps it up for the GPUs Ram ok this is
again very dependent on what you do but
for the most part 16 gigs is good enough
but there are a lot of applications that
can take advantage of 32 at this point
so if you're a Photoshop user and your
projects are like six seven hundred
Meg's like once you get into bigger
projects the extra RAM is nice and the
same thing goes for video editing I
output 4k videos and I can definitely
benefit from 32 gigs of ram instead of
16 but that's basically the main
Hardware decisions like you just gotta
figure out what you're doing what you
need and go off of that okay so I want
to talk about performance a little bit
here's a chart that has playback and
render performance for a few different
hardware configurations the MacBook
Performance is finally on par with
Windows laptops which is really nice to
see we also noticed that the GPU choice
is really not all that important as long
as you have something that's pretty good
you're gonna be great you really don't
need the top-of-the-line r-tx hardware
when it comes to Adobe's software so I'm
gonna finish this video with just some
talking points of some of the devices I
have here like clearly these are not the
like the only options you have out there
when it comes to creative laptops but
these are ones that are kind of special
or unique in some sense
the Asus Zenbook Pro do have done a
review on this thing it's the one with
two screens like the 4k screen up top
and then the kind of touch screen on the
bottom it's neat it's something that I
think if you can fit it into your
workflow can be really useful for some
creative professionals but just kind of
if you if you don't know what it is
definitely check that thing out the
arrow 15 if you're looking for that
OLED experience this is the best one in
my opinion arrow 15 they've done it
right from gigabyte
one really neat one is the Acer concept
D like this is a fully white laptop I
think they did a really good job with
the aesthetics of it and of the Windows
laptops I would say this has the best
screen I actually really like this
device on the whole Razer Blade 15 if
you're looking for a gaming laptop that
can double as a creative laptop like
without you know messing around with
different screens and stuff check this
one out
xbs 15 it's always been like a solid
overall device because it has an SD card
slot but it doesn't have a particularly
powerful GPU and there's some thermal
limitations with this chassis the
MacBooks we've seen Adobe's done some
great work with their software these
things perform way better than they ever
did before
one thing that's actually interesting
that some people may not be aware of
when it comes to any of these devices
any of the windows devices if they're
running off of battery power like if you
have to disconnect the AC adapter and
run off of battery power they don't
perform as well as they would if they
were plugged up MacBooks are different
they don't have as strong of a power
draw so these can run off of the battery
with the exact same kind of performance
as they would if it was plugged up so
that's just something to keep in mind
like not everyone knows that but that
basically wraps up this video I hope
this was helpful hope this was useful
just keep in mind like there's a lot of
marketing around this space you know
duck and dodge the dumb stuff and focus
on the stuff that's important okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it see
you guys next time
you